---
title: Groonga CloudSearch 1.5.0 and Groonga CloudSearch Console 1.2.0 is out, and new roadmap
layout: post
description: We've shipped Groonga CloudSearch version 1.5.0 and Groonga CloudSearch Console 1.2.0. New features come with the release, and there is our new roadmap.
---

Today, we've shipped Groonga CloudSearch version 1.5.0 and Groonga CloudSearch
Console 1.2.0. You can download the packages and read the tutorial on
[the home page of this project site](/).

### What's new? : Groonga CloudSearch

#### Better compatibility to the Amazon CloudSearch

 * "DefineIndexField" never merges newly specified options with previously
   defined options. (In other words, now "DefineIndexField" always cleared old
   options at old versions.)
 * XML SDF batches are now acceptable. (Note: all responses from documents/batch
   API are still returned in JSON.)

#### CLI tool changes

Now `gcs-configure-fields` command becomes more compatible to `cs-configure-fields`.
Existing field options are always cleared, so you have to set multiple field
options at once. For this change, now the command accepts multiple "--option"
options, like:

   $ gcs-configure-fields -d domain --name field --type literal --option search result

or

   $ gcs-configure-fields -d domain --name field --type literal --option search --option result

Moreover, `gcs-configure-from-sdf` is also now available. You can define multiple
index fields from existing SDF file.

#### Changes as a daemon

Because you always have to call APIs via HTTP, now the "--base-host" command
line option for bin/gcs and GCS_BASE_HOST environment variable are obsolete.
It is automatically detected from the Host header.
You don't need to give a base host name of the server to Groonga
CloudSearch processes anymore.

#### Better security

Now Groonga CloudSearch creates the directory to store data with the permission
0700 (full access by author, otherwise no access). If you use old versions of
Groonga CloudSearch, you should set the permission of the data directory
(~gcs/.gcs, ~/.gcs, and so on) to 0700 to the data directory
by the `chmod` command.

### What's new? : Groonga CloudSearch Console

#### Better authentication

Groonga CloudSearch Console now activates BASIC Auth always. So it asks you to
register account name and password for the administration user on the initial
access. The web console can't be accessed without authentication anymore.

Account information is stored in the directory ~/.gcs-console by default. If
you need to reset the password, remove the directory.

#### Flexible "--endpoint" option

Simple host name is now acceptable for the "--endpoint" option (and
GCS_CONSOLE_ENDPOINT environment variable) like "--endpoint gcs-console.example.com:7575".
In old versions, you always had to specify full URL like "http://gcs-console.example.com:7575".

### New roadmap

Now we are planning to suspend this project and concentrate human resources to the
[fluent-plugin-groonga project](http://b.hatena.ne.jp/entry/s/github.com/groonga/fluent-plugin-groonga)
for scalable backend based on groonga. After that, we'll be back and work to
improve Groonga CloudSearch with scalable backends.

Currently Groonga CloudSearch doesn't support default value, source attribute,
and more features of Amazon CloudSearch. We have to re-construct the database
layer of Groonga CloudSearch to support these features.

On the other hand, now groonga project has started a search system based on
scalable backends, with fluentd. It is the most important feature of Amazon
CloudSearch but not supported by Groonga CloudSearch.

Because both changes require many many codes around the database layer. We'll
need to rewrite codes for the scalable backends in the feature, even if we now
implement default value and other features. So we've decided to suspend
this Groonga CloudSearch project for a while and concentrate development
resources to the scalable backend.
