---
title: Groonga CloudSearch 1.2.0 is out!
layout: post
description: We've shipped Groonga CloudSearch version 1.2.0. New features come with the release!
---

Today, we've shipped Groonga CloudSearch version 1.2.0. You can download
the package and read the tutorial on [the home page of this project site](/).

### What's new?

Groonga CloudSearch 1.2.0 includes many many improvements, and they can be
described as following three topics.

#### Becomes safer

Simple access-control mechanism is now available, so you can deploy Groonga
CloudSearch to a public server safely.

 * A search domain has its own unique ID.
   It guards a public Groonga CloudSearch server from unexpected accesses
   by any third person, because you have to access to your server with
   unique endpoints.
 * The Configuration API (and the dashboard) became accessible only from
   privileged networks ("127.0.0.0/8" by default) which are specified by
   a command line parameter for the "gcs" command. No one except you can
   configure your Groonga CloudSearch server anymore.

For the first change, you need to re-create the whole database before running
Groonga CloudSearch 1.2.0.
Run following command to clear the database: <kbd>rm -rf ~/.gcs</kbd>

#### Facet

You can store multiple values to an index field, and set the field to
"facet returnable".
Then you can get a facet information with a part of a search result specifying
the "facet" URL parameter, and you can use the result for a new search
condition via the "bq" URL parameter.
For example, if you have a literal field "tags", then
<code>bq=tags:'science'</code> will return a search result including
documents which have "science" as a member of its "tags" field.

As above, Groonga CloudSearch 1.2.0 supports "bq" (complex queries), except
the "not" operator.

#### Easy configuration

Groonga CloudSearch now includes following commands:

 * gcs-create-domain
 * gcs-delete-domain
 * gcs-describe-domain
 * gcs-configure-field (create, update, and delete)
 * gcs-configure-text-options (for synonyms)
 * gcs-configure-default-search-field (Groonga CloudSearch's extension)
 * gcs-post-sdf

They are helper tools which are compatible to Amazon CloudSearch's command line tools.
You can setup your search domains only with command line tools, so you don't
have to use the configuration API via HTTP anymore, for basic usecases.

### Sample implementation

[Norema search (node reference manual search)](https://github.com/nroonga/norema) is now downloadable, it's an example application of Groonga CloudSearch.
It will help you to build Web applications with Groonga CloudSearch.
