---
title: Groonga CloudSearch 1.4.0 and Groonga CloudSearch Console 1.1.0 is out!
layout: post
description: We've shipped Groonga CloudSearch version 1.4.0 and Groonga CloudSearch Console 1.1.0. New features come with the release!
---

Today, we've shipped Groonga CloudSearch version 1.4.0 and Groonga CloudSearch
Console 1.1.0. You can download the packages and read the tutorial on
[the home page of this project site](/).

### What's new? : Groonga CloudSearch

Groonga CloudSearch 1.4.0 includes following three topics.

#### Better compatibility to the Amazon CloudSearch

 * Search results are now sortable by "rank" option. Currently, only simple
   sort is supported. Custom rank expressions are not available yet.
 * Number of searchable documents is returned as a part of response from
   DescribeDomains.
 * "Arn" is now returned as a part of domain statuses.
 * Responses for CreateDomain, DeleteDomain, DescribeDomains, DefineIndexField,
   DeleteIndexField, and DescribeIndexFields are now more compatible.

#### CLI tools improvements

Now Groonga CloudSearch CLI (Command Line Interface) tools accept "-e" (or
"--endpoint") option to specify the endpoint of the configuration API.
For example, if your remote Groonga CloudSearch server is accessible with the
URI "http://gcs.example.com:7575/", then you'll run the gcs-describe-domain
command like:

    $ gcs-describe-domain --endpoint=gcs.example.com:7575

or

    $ gcs-describe-domain -e gcs.example.com:7575

The gcs-post-sdf command had an option named "--endpoint" but it has been
renamed to "--document-endpoint". "--endpoint" is now works as an option to
specify the endpoint of the configuration API. So, if you have a search domain
named "companies" on the remote service, you'll run the gcs-post-sdf command
like:

    $ gcs-post-sdf --document-endpoint=doc-companies-xxxxxxx.gcs.example.com:7575

or

    $ gcs-post-sdf --endpoint=gcs.example.com:7575 --domain-name=companies

By these changes, now gcs-commands are incompatible to the old one.

#### Improvements as a daemon

Now, you can configure the Groonga CloudSearch daemon (Port number, host name,
etc.) via /etc/default/gcs if you installed Groonga CloudSearch from the debian
package.

Moreover, log files (access.log, error.log and query.log) are available at
/var/log/gcs.


### What's new? : Groonga CloudSearch Console

Groonga CloudSearch Console includes three major improvements.

#### Authentication

Simple access control feature is now available. Specifying a pair of username
and password via a command line option "--auth" or an environment variable
"GCS_CONSOLE_AUTH" will activate BASIC Auth. For example, if you wish to use
"admin" as the username and "abcd1234", then you'll run following command line:

    $ gcs-console --auth=admin:abcd1234

If you are running the Groonga CloudSearch Console as a daemon (installed from
the debian package), then configurations including authentication are
configured via the file /etc/default/gcs-console.

Then, you'll be able to deploy Groonga CloudSearch Console to a public space.

(However, this is just temporally feature. In the future releases, we'll add
UIs to set and change the password via the Groonga CloudSearch Console itself.)

#### Management of index fields

Features to manage index fields are now available. Now you'll create, modify,
and delete index fields via the Groonga CloudSearch Console.

#### Posting SDF batches

Now you can upload SDF batches to post the Groonga CloudSearch server, via the
Groonga CloudSearch Console.

